# European Parties Positions in 2017

Since 1999 researchers from The University of North Carolina estimate party positions on European integration, ideology and policy issues for national parties in a variety of European countries through experts surveys. For this project, I am going to use the most recent one, the 2017 Chapel Hill Expert FLASH Survey (CHES). According to its website, this is a reduced survey that focuses on a smaller set of EU member states. The survey asks all the standard questions on EU placement, economic and social party positioning. In terms of policy issues, the survey focuses on the key questions facing Europe in 2017 – EU economic coordination, populism, and migration. Instead of using the individual answers from experts, I am going to take the dataset that contains the mean results for each party. I am going to use this information to do an explorative analysis using descriptive statistics. 

# Conclusion
The analysis presented here shows that the image that political parties projected, at least for the experts who responded to this survey, was one of being more Pro-Europe in general but more anti-migration. Also, it shows that despite general trends,it is important to look at domestic dynamics, since they differ substantially. The reasons might be many: geographic location, budgetary situation, divison of the public opinion, and others. This dataset seems to be a good approximation to the real scenario in 2017. However, it is important to notice that since it is a sruvey answered by experts, the interpretation of the scales, personal perceptions on political parties and expertise on foreign countries might be playing a important role.

# Bibliography
Polk, Jonathan, Jan Rovny, Ryan Bakker, Erica Edwards, Liesbet Hooghe, Seth Jolly, Jelle Koedam, Filip Kostelka, Gary Marks, Gijs Schumacher, Marco Steenbergen, Milada Vachudova and Marko Zilovic. 2017. “Explaining the salience of anti-elitism and reducing political corruption for political parties in Europe with the 2014 Chapel Hill Expert Survey data,” Research & Politics (January-March): 1-9.
